# |GroverMind>

## Team members:
* Angelini Filippo      (filippo.angelini@studenti.unipd.it)
* Campesan Giulia       (giulia.campesan.1@studenti.unipd.it)
* Faorlin Tommaso       (tommaso.faorlin@studenti.unipd.it)
* Marcomini Alessandro  (alessandro.marcomini.1@studenti.unipd.it)
* Piccinelli Samuele    (samuele.piccinelli@studenti.unipd.it)

## Goal of the project
 
As a creative project for the Microsoft challenge for qcHack 2021 we developed a version of <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mastermind_(board_game)> which
implements the Grover search algorithm throughout the play.
The aim of this project is to make the Grover's algorithm understandable, implementing it in a well-known game.
 In our implementation, the Grover algorithm will have the player role: while implementing sequences as superposition of multi-qubit basis states $\ket{\phi_{sup}}$, their amplitude probabilities are magnified by the algorithm according to their compatibility with the master hints. The actual proposal for the next move is obtained by measuring $\ket{\phi_{sup}}$ and make it collapse to a single basis state.

## Instructions to play 
To play our game you just need:
* In your terminal type
`dotnet build`
in order to compile the 'Program.qs' file
* In your terminal type
`dotnet run`
in order to run and ENJOY! ;)

The system will generate automatically the master's sequence to be guessed and the player's proposals at each step.


## The algorithm

The whole algorithm breaks down in the following steps:

1. **Sequences initialization**
 The master and the player sequences are made up of 5 elements: to each of them is assigned one colour out of 4, identified by an integer ranging from 0 to 3.

The master begins by generating a sequence of 5 random numbers and the player draws his first random guess. 
Each random bit that will partecipate in encoding the colours is generated by applying the Hadamard gate on the $\ket{0}$ state and then measuring it in the Z basis. 

2. **Sequences comparison**
After the player's guess, the comparison between the latter and the master sequence is performed, identifying in which position the same colours are found. This is the master's feedback that will be exploited in the next step to formulate a new proposal.


3. **Oracle control**
After recieving the master's feedback, the player needs to formulate a new proposal: since 5 numbers between 0 and 3 can be encoded in a 10 qubits register, we create a superposition of all these quantum basis states. The oracle will then mark all the states in this superposition for which the master hints are respected.

We exploited the marking oracle trick, translating it into a phase oracle through the phase kick-back technique.

4. **Grover algorithm**
We now iterate following the standard Grover search algorithm in order to amplify the marked states. The optimal number of iterations has been estimated as follows:
$$ \frac{\pi}{4}\sqrt{\frac{N}{M}} $$ which leads in this case with $2^{10}$ possible combinations to $$ \pi(2^{n{corr} - 1}) $$
where $n{corr}$ is the number of correctly guessed color/pair couples.

After this process has come to an end, we proceed to measure our register and set the collapsed state as the new player's proposal.


This implementation does not exploit the speed-up potential of the Grover algorithm, but it just proceeds through a traditional trial-and-error approach. 


* **Game flow**
We iterate over the points 2., 3. and 4 until the right sequence is found.


* **Winning**
Once the right sequence is found, the player wins. The goal is to do it in the least number of trials possible.

### Quantum speed-up

We could have implemented a version in which the oracle knows the correct sequence and, within a certain probability, it is able to find it in a single trial. In this way, we would have exploited at its fullest the Grover speed up.
But.... where's the fun without a little effort? ;)

### Feedback
Feel free to contact us, any feedback will be greatly appreciated! :)

### Linkedin Blogpost

<https://www.linkedin.com/posts/alessandro-marcomini_faotomqchack-microsoft-challenge-activity-6787014602862530560-wc2X>

[edited at 12:13 EDT] <https://tommaso-faorlin.medium.com/grovermind-66fbfe8af650>

